Fall 2025
CSCB07 – Software Design
Lab 2
Objectives
• Getting familiar with Java (loops, arrays, I/O)
• Getting familiar with Git (branching)
Logistics
• This lab is worth 2% of the course grade and it will be supervised by your TA during the tutorial
session in the week of Sep 22nd. If you encounter any problem while doing the steps listed in the
next section, ask the TA for help.
• Attendance will be taken during the tutorial. If you are unable to attend, please make a private
Piazza post explaining why and make sure to submit the deliverables by the due date. Failing to
do so might result in a grade of zero on this lab.
• The lab should be done individually.
• The due date is Sep 28, 2025.
Instructions
1. Clone the repo of Lab 1 using the command git clone RepoURL (RepoURL should be replaced by
the actual URL of your repo)
2. Change the directory using the command cd b07lab1
3. Create a branch named lab2 using the command git checkout -b lab2
4. Modify Polynomial.java as follows:
a. Replace the array representing the coefficients by two arrays: one representing the nonzero coefficients (of type double) and another one representing the corresponding
exponents(of type int). For example, the polynomial 6 − 2𝑥 + 5𝑥! would be represented
using the arrays [6, -2, 5] and [0, 1, 3]
b. Update the existing methods accordingly
c. Add a method named multiply that takes one argument of type Polynomial and returns
the polynomial resulting from multiplying the calling object and the argument. The
resulting polynomial should not contain redundant exponents.
d. Add a constructor that takes one argument of type File and initializes the polynomial
based on the contents of the file. You can assume that the file contains one line with no
Fall 2025
whitespaces representing a valid polynomial. For example: the line 5-3x2+7x8
corresponds to the polynomial 5 − 3𝑥" + 7𝑥#
Hint: you might want to use the following methods: split of the String class, parseInt of
the Integer class, and parseDouble of the Double class
e. Add a method named saveToFile that takes one argument of type String representing a
file name and saves the polynomial in textual format in the corresponding file (similar to
the format used in part d)
f. You can add any supplementary classes/methods you might find useful
5. Modify Driver.java to test the updated code
6. Make sure all the relevant java files are staged using the command git add *.java
7. Record your changes using the command:
git commit -m “modified Polynomial.java and Driver.java”
8. Upload the changes made locally to your online repo using the command:
git push --set-upstream origin lab2
9. Submit the URL of your repo to “Lab 2” on Quercus
Evaluation
• Git: 0.5 pt
• Java code: 1.5 pts
• A 10% penalty will be applied for missing the tutorial with no valid excuse
